Filtering Traffic
The output is a bit overwhelming at first,
so let’s try to get a better understanding
of the IP addresses and ports involved
by using awk and sort.
First, we’ll use the tcpdump -n option
to skip DNS name lookups
and -r to read from our
packet capture file.
Then, we can pipe the
output into awk,
printing the destination IP address and
port contained in the third field,
and pipe it again to sort
and uniq -c to sort
and count the number of times the
field appears in the capture, respectively
Lastly we use head to only
display the first 10 lines of output.
We can see that 172.16.40.10 was the most
common destination address
followed by 208.68.234.99.
Given that the 172 address was contacted
on a low destination port (port 81)
and the 208 address was contacted
on high destination ports,
we can rightly assume that the former
is a server and the latter is a client.
We could also safely assume that the
client address made many requests
against the server, but in order to
proceed without too many assumptions,
we can use filters to inspect
the traffic more closely.
In order to filter from
the command line,
we'll use source host to output only
traffic originating from a given host.
We can also apply a
destination host filter…
…to output only traffic destined
for a specific host.
Or we can filter traffic by port number.
This can be done by specifying port
followed by a port number,
which in our case, is 81.
This filter displays both source
and destination traffic against port 81.
Let’s move along and actually
inspect some packets
in more detail to see what we can uncover.
To dump the captured traffic,
we’ll use the -X option
to print the packet data in
both HEX and ASCII format.
We immediately notice that the
traffic to the 172 address on port 81
looks like HTTP data.
In fact, it seems like these HTTP requests
contain Basic HTTP Authentication data,
with the User agent set to something
about a “Forest Lobster”.
This is a pretty clear sign that
something strange is occurring.